Even though performing conditional comparisons is more of a general principle than specific to array manipulation, it is first worth touching upon it to introduce the topic of advanced expressions.

### Explaining Scenarios
Consider a retailer wanting to calculate the total cost of a customer’s shopping order. 
The customer might order multiple of the same product, and the vendor applies a discount if more than 5 of the product items are in the order.

In a procedural style of JavaScript, you might write the following code to calculate the total order cost:

```js
//define order
let order = {"product": "WizzyWidget", "price": 25.99, "qty": 8};

// Procedural style JavaScript
if (order.qty > 5) {
    order.cost = order.price * order.qty * 0.9;
} else {
    order.cost = order.price * order.qty;
}
const output = {product: 'WizzyWidget', qty: 8, price: 25.99, cost: 187.128}

//To achieve a similar outcome in an aggregation pipeline, you might use the following:
db.customer_orders.insertOne(order);
var pipeline = [
    {"$set": {
            "cost": {
                "$cond": {
                    "if":   {"$gte": ["$qty", 5]},
                    "then": {"$multiply": ["$price", "$qty", 0.9]},
                    "else": {"$multiply": ["$price", "$qty"]},
                }
            },
        }},
];
db.customer_orders.aggregate(pipeline);
const output = {product: 'WizzyWidget', price: 25.99, qty: 8, cost: 187.128}
```

Here, you can see that the JavaScript code's construction in a functional style more closely resembles the aggregation pipeline's structure. 
This comparison highlights why some people may find composing aggregation expressions foreboding. 
The challenge is predominantly due to the less familiar paradigm of functional programming rather than the intricacies of MongoDB's aggregation language per se.
The pipeline will work unchanged when run against a collection of many records, which could feasibly be many billions.
The sample JavaScript code only works against one document at a time and would need to be modified to loop through a list of records. 
This JavaScript code would need to fetch each document from the database back to a client, apply the modifications and then write the result back to the database. 
Instead, the aggregation pipeline’s logic operates against each document in-situ within the database for far superior performance and efficiency.

